[Music]
I'm 100% sure you'll find this very
useful how to calculate percentages I
know your initial reaction why do I need
to know this but think about it being
able to calculate percentages isn't just
necessary for school kids that need to
pass their next math test on the topic
from figuring out how much you should
tip at a restaurant to knowing how much
money you can save on that 70% sale at
the store down the road yeah there are
tons of real-life situations when this
knowledge comes in handy that's why
we're here to make your life a whole lot
easier after this video you'll be a
walking talking human calculator so make
yourself comfortable and like Jack Black
says in School of Rock let's get off
your ass and learn some math but first
take this moment to subscribe to our
Channel and turn on post notifications
so that you won't miss any of our new
videos today we've got five useful
tricks and calculating percentages but
pay attention because we're going to
test what you've learned after every
single part all set then we'll let's
start with the most common approaches
method number one calculating the needed
percentage before we start crunching
numbers it's important to understand
what exactly a percentage is
mathematically speaking it's a way to
express a number as a part of a whole
let's say for instance you bought seven
bananas and then gulp one down right
away or what percent of your bananas
have you eaten this task may sound
daunting at first but it's way easier to
solve than you think you had seven
bananas which makes one hundred percent
that's your total inventory right and
you ate one banana out of the seven all
you have to do is find out what percent
of the total this one banana makes to do
that you just have to divide the number
of bananas you ate one by the number of
bananas that make one hundred seven but
since we're after the percent you'll
need to multiply the result by 100% as
well
so for our little task it's 1/7 and then
that number times 100 in the end you'll
get about 14% and there you go you
consume 14% of your bananas when you ate
one of the seven now doesn't that have
appeal hmm now let's see how you cope
with a similar task on your own task
number one your dog just gave birth to
six of the cutest puppies the world has
ever seen unfortunately you can keep
only two of them yeah I know bummer so
what percentage of your puppies will you
keep and what percent will you give away
you have 15 seconds to figure it out
feel free to pause the video pause the
video if you need more time
[Music]
okay now let's go through this together
we'll start with the puppies you're
going to keep divide two by six and
multiply that number by 100 that gives
us 33% now for the sad part
the puppies you're giving away that'll
be 4 divided by 6 times 100 which is
about 67% if you got these numbers then
Congrats
you can't shine really fast no time to
relax though we've got a whole bunch of
other methods to discuss method number
two working with the given percentage
let's say you know the percentage of
something but you don't know the
numerical value sounds complicated I
know now just imagine if you borrowed
$100 from a friend and he's going to
charge you an interest rate of 3% a day
some kind of friend right more like a
loan shark so exactly how many dollars
is this 3% to solve this task you need
to do two simple multiplications first
off you have to multiply 3 by 0.01 which
is 0.03
that's 3% in its decimal form then you
multiply the $100 that you borrowed
which makes 100% in this case by 0.03 in
the end you're paying $3 a day in
interest now let's put all this new
knowledge into practice task number two
there are 850 books in your local
library the library is going out of
business and has decided to give 40% of
their books to a nearby school how many
books will the school get again 15
seconds to find the correct answer
[Music]
well according to our formula we first
need to multiply 40 by 0.01 which is 0.4
then we take 0.4 and multiply it by the
number of books that make 100% which is
850 so your final answer should be 340
see all this percentage stuff is a walk
in the park
let's keep chugging along method number
three
calculating discounts sales are the best
right so what if something with a hefty
price tag of 200 bucks catches your eye
and it's on sale at 30 percent off how
much would you pay hmm let's see the
first step is to find out the opposite
of the discounted percent so let's take
100 percent minus 30 percent to get 70
percent here's where the second formula
that we've discussed comes in multiply
70 by 0.01 which is 0.7 take that 0.7
times the initial price of $200 that
means the new price is $140 yeah that's
a pretty good deal now let's see if you
can apply this method to our new task
task number three the vinyl record of
your favorite album of all time cost 16
bucks but you're in luck
the store's having a huge sale and now
you can buy it at 70 percent off how
much does the album cost now times
a-tickin
[Music]
thanks to the sale you'll only have to
pay 30% of the album's original price
the remaining calculations are a piece
of cake
we multiply 30 by 0.01 to get 0.3 and
then multiply it again by 16 bucks in
the end you can get this vinyl for only
4 dollars and 80 cents if only stores
with this generous and real-life method
number for a trick for 25% tasks now
that we're done with all of the most
common methods for calculating
percentages it's time to learn some
awesome shortcuts this next little trick
is extremely useful for tasks involving
25% of something 25% is 1/4 or 1/4 of
100% right so whenever you need to find
25% of something or you already know 25%
of a whole you can simply divide or
multiply the initial number by 4 for
example you need to calculate 25% of 80
just divided by 4 and you get 20 or if
you know that 15 makes 25% of something
simply multiply 15 by 4 to get the
correct answer of 60 task number 4 there
are 300 pieces of jewelry in mrs.
Fernandes house she paid for 25% of them
herself
well let's assume the rest were gifts
and that she's not some infamous jewel
thief mm hmm how many pieces of jewelry
did mrs. Fernandes buy with her own
money tick-tock 15 seconds on the clock
[Music]
300 divided by 4 is 75 yeah easy-peasy
task number 5 you're saving your money
to buy your dream bicycle so far you've
saved up 400 bucks but that's only 25%
of the bikes total price how much does
the bike cost just multiply 400 dollars
by 4 and you'll find that the bicycles
full price is $1,600
method number 5 find the most convenient
percentage first any time you need to
calculate something in your head like
the tip you should leave at a restaurant
you can find the most convenient
percentage first and then go further
from it
for example when you need to find five
percent of something find 10 percent
instead and split the result in half
this trick works with fifteen percent as
well find ten percent have it and add
that half to the result the last trick
for 10 percent is doubling it when you
need to find 20 percent the same works
for 50 percent - if you need 25 percent
find 50 percent and divide it by 2 if
you need 60 percent find 50 percent
divided by 5 to get 10 percent and add
that to the initial 50 percent and
finally for 75 percent find 50 percent
have it and add the 1/2 to that 50
percent everything becomes so much
simpler this way don't you think
let's put your new skills to the test
task number 6 there are 300 kids in a
camp but 75% of them went home early so
how many children didn't stick it out
for the whole camp session
[Music]
we know that 300 kids make 100 percent
so it's only logical that 150 is 50% but
we need to find 75 percent right so
let's have 50 percent to find the
remaining 25% divide 150 by 2 to get 75
then add that 75 to 150 and you'll learn
that two hundred twenty-five kids
decided to cut camp short it's way less
hard and a lot more fun to solve tasks
with this trick isn't it and that's
basically it for the different ways to
solve percentage tasks don't forget that
the more you practice the better you'll
get at it if you need to study for a
test or maybe you're just bored and need
some mental stimulation simply pick some
random numbers and start doing mental
math this way you'll quickly become a
pro at percents hey getting back to
those puppies you're giving away why not
sell them we can help you calculate your
profit percentages - so what's the
hardest thing about math for you tell us
in the comments below and perhaps we'll
make another video to help you out with
your math struggles don't forget to give
us a like and click that subscribe
button to stay on the bright side of
life